welcome back ladies and gentlemen's
Lazlo Montgomery here with one more
halfway decent and interesting Chinese
sang the penultimate of this second
season this Chung use a little more
upbeat than the last two but not without
its share of tragedy we don't have to go
back too far in this episode relatively
speaking that is we're only at the
dismal conclusion of the northern song
and it's aftermath down in hangzhou most
of our Chong you are rooted in the
Eastern Joe dynasty springing autumn and
warring states periods but not this one
it took place a good fifteen hundred
years after those feudalistic times
today we're going to look at chin sir
humming not sure if any of you have
heard that one before doesn't make it to
any top ten lists as far as I know ginsa
humming let's do what we always do chin
yeah st. scheana's Duane eoten chain
play a loop to an axe and last week's
wrenching chuang both man and loot have
perished gene could be a general term
for a stringed instrument but today it's
always referred to as a seven stringed
gucci and then there's another new
instrument for you called a sub this is
a bigger instrument with anywhere from
25 to 50 strings this musical instrument
went all the way back to the joe dynasty
so it's as ancient as the gooch in so a
chin serve that Sheen and the Sun then
there's her just like from the previous
episode shugo hug whaaah if the tunes
too highfalutin ain't no one gonna sing
it although I don't think my Chung Utes
at the end put it quite that way in the
fourth tone that character means to join
in the singing or to chime in with
others and last character mean we've
come across this one before remember
from season 1 G Ming go thumb crow like
a and snatch like a dog to use low
handed tricks to get what you want we're
using the same Ming it means of birds
and sex and mammals to cry out or to
crow but in our case today it means more
like to sing or
to make a sound shinza humming the sheen
and the sing-along Sound not terribly
revealing is it so you know what that
means we're left with no choice except
to dig below the surface to uncover the
story from whence this Chung you
spraying and once this story is told
these four characters that appear
randomly selected out of a hat all of a
sudden they make perfect sense the story
as I said took place during some of the
darkest hours of the Song Dynasty these
years during the 11 20s were covered in
the previous China history podcast
episode 23 on the Song Dynasty and then
again in more gory detail in that 4 part
series on the white zone Emperor
although our story takes place during
the song the source of the material came
from a UN dynasty collection of poems
called the island Shen couldn't dig up
too much on that the two main characters
of today's story were far from a couple
of nobodies jaal meng chun and Li Ching
ja ja wing chun lived from 1080 12 11 29
and was a giant in the field of ancient
chinese pig raphy yeah I know what's
that a pig raphy is the study of ancient
inscriptions words and symbols that are
carved into substrates like stone or
metal he was also quite accomplished in
the arts and letters and came from a
respectable lineage that well today
could have got him a ground floor table
at the LA cutie house in Hong Kong Li
Ching Joe is ranked as among the
greatest female poets in all of Chinese
history and let me say that's quite a
claim to fame you had to be pretty darn
good to share that superlative she lived
1084 to 1155 so you could see she lived
26 years longer than jianming chung they
were both from Shandong Province the
chin Chow also had quite a background
her father had studied under no less a
superstar than su dongpo su sure who we
featured in a standalone episodes CHP
175 her father was an amazing scholar
and like many a song
err illiterate us he had a pretty decent
library and leaching Chow grew up
amongst all these books and soaked up
all she could from them she was
incredible and already in her teens it
was said she was very much admired for
her poetry she was quite a favorite to
me more elite circles of aristocrats the
two met jaw was 20 and Lee was 18 in
1101 they married and to call this a
match made in heaven would be the
understatement of the century these two
were in love and devoted to each other
like you cannot believe and to top it
all off as if this true love they had
for each other wasn't enough they both
shared this passion for a pig raphy and
would scour the markets together looking
for any inscriptions that they could
study together and add to their
museum-quality collection sometimes
xiaoming Chun would arrive home wearing
almost nothing because well it wasn't
unusual for him to pawn the clothes on
his back in order to acquire some peace
or another that he saw in some antiques
market when charming Chung received his
degree and began his career as an
official in the northern song
bureaucracy he wasn't making much money
but even in their relative poverty you
couldn't find a happier couple when they
were together they would sit side by
side and decipher these old inscriptions
they practice calligraphy together paint
engage in witty repartee and sing
couplets to each other replying to the
other in the most elegant and poetic
ways oh man they had a blast together so
in love the preachers face turned red
together they collaborated on the work
that charming Chung is most remembered
for the gene sure loop 30 volume work
that was revered as the greatest
academic milestone in Chinese a pig
raphy going back to the Shang Dynasty so
this happy couple lived in share an
utter conjugal bliss for many years and
then in the 11 20s
l came from the north the Jurchens who
later on would be known as the manchus
flooded out of their lands in Manchuria
and put an end to what became known as
the northern song dynasty by 11 27 it
was all over and the Magnificent song
capital city of Kaifeng was reduced to
cinders and the entire royal family was
sent packing to the coldest most
desolate parts of heilongjiang to live
out the rest of their lives and chao
meng chun and Li Ching Joe they fled
south first to Nanjing one song dynasty
royal had gotten away and reconstituted
the dynasty down in present-day Hangzhou
and so began the southern soul they like
so many other northerners who fled for
their lives and terror cha Ming Qiong
and Li Ching Joe had the sorta start
their lives all over like other ethnic
minorities who are forced to flee in the
middle of the night they could only card
away a limited amount of their vast
possessions including their collection
and in their haste to put as many tracks
as possible between them and the
Jurchens they had to dump plenty of
stuff along the way whatever was left
behind so lovingly and painstakingly
sorted studied and cared for was
destroyed by the church ins though the
happy couple survived that national
trauma cha Ming Qiong didn't bounce back
from the Jurchen invasion and he died in
1129 he left behind his unfinished work
that gene sure Lou as well as all the
research that still needed to be done
with all the couples various epigraphic
pursuits so li ching cha was heartbroken
her beloved husband cha Ming Qiong was
gone the man who had always been an
inspiration for many of her greatest
poems he had been more than a soulmate
and losing him so young punched a giant
hole in her life what could she do
except keep on keeping on she moved to
Hangzhou one of China's great centers of
the Arts and Letters she continued to
produce her poetry
she helped to finish off the gene sure
Lou she lived plainly until her dying
day honored and cherished the memory of
her husband chao meng chun she had
experienced a rollercoaster life filled
with the greatest happiness and the most
miserable despair anyone who lived
through the Jurchen invasion didn't have
it easy if they survived at all it was a
shocking upheaval and ended up being
only a dress rehearsal for the Mongol
invasion 140 years later so you can now
see the meaning of this idiom shin-soo
humming the two instruments chin suit
represent chao meng chun and Li Ching
Joel humming singing songs back and
forth ginsa humming that describes a
perfect relationship especially a
marriage perfect harmony and conjugal
bliss xin booming if you can say this
about the relationship you're in now
then gong xi knee Mazel Tov and
congratulations what can be better than
that in li ching cha this great poets
about sixty to a hundred of her poems
managed to make it to our day as I said
like Muhammad Ali people called her the
greatest okay Lazlo Montgomery signing
off for a ninth time this musical season
you know where I'm recording this it
isn't a professional recording studio
i'm sure you can tell that there's more
where this came from so please please me
and do come back next time for another
nice tasty chun you here at the chinese
sayings podcast